# WEEKLY SPECIFICATION REPORT

## DESCRIPTION

**Topic:** Data set requirements

**Objective:** Understanding the requirements for the data sets to be used for the different models

**Author:** Théo Boisseau

**Creation date:** 27.10.2022

**Time spent:** 3h

**Version:** 1.0

## SUMMARY

1. [SEGMENTATION LEVEL](#I.)
2. [ORNAMENTS](#II.)
3. [SIZE AND EXHAUSTIVENESS](#III.)


# I. INTRODUCTION

Ideally, Agora should extract all content elements from page to character level of any ancient document, which implies a continuous level of segmentation from page-level to character-level in printed and handwritten ancient documents.

It must at least extract ornament in ancient documents and characters in ancient printed documents.
This way, most CESR documents can be further processed for the Batyr databse and by Retro in a much easier way.

A table of the elements of content (EOCs) described in this note can be found [here](../Deliverables/20221012SpecsOutputs.xlsx).


# I. SEGMENTATION LEVEL <a id="I."></a>

## STATE-OF-THE-ART MODELS

When it comes to text, ancient document layout analysis frameworks are usually designed for further OCR opperations.
Typical OCR modules are more effective when working on lines because they give them more information for character recognition.
State-of-the-art modules can have very good results when taking only a character as input in the case of printed documents, ancient or not.
However, when it comes to handwritten documents, they still need to work at baseline-level to have better context.

Moreover, segmentation methods usually use a simple post-processing step that consists of filtering connected components according to their size.
In the case of character-level segmentation in handwritten text, this method is ineffective since all characters in a line form a connected component.

Thus, in the case of text segmentation, Agora will have the ability to segment printed characters but also handwritten lines.
It will most likely not be able to segment handwritten characters.


## DATA SETS




# II. ORNAMENTS <a id="II."></a>

## ILLUSTRATIONS

For CESR use cases, illustrations include drawings, engravings and headers that may look quite similar.

It remains to define if they should and can also extract their optional legends.

They can be of various shapes, from a region of the page to the whole page.

Headers are specific engravings that should be labeled differently for the Batyr database.

In any case, state-of-the-art models and frameworks for ancient document layout analysis can easily extract illustrations.


## INITIAL CAPITALS

Another type of ornaments, which is in some way an illustration too, is treated separately since it is both text and ornament.

Initial capitals can be labelled in two ways: character and illustrations.


## DATA SETS


# III. SIZE AND EXHAUSTIVENESS <a id="II."></a>

> [With regard to datasets, the ways in which their completeness is ensured and how they should be labelled are essential.](221019SpecifsOutline.md#II.LEARNING)

Details

Details...

