# WEEKLY SPECIFICATION REPORT

## DESCRIPTION

**Topic:** Debriefing meeting with the RETRO team user segment

**Objective:** Understanding RETRO inputs and defining the specification of Deep-Agora input

**Author:** Théo Boisseau

**Creation date:** 12.10.2022

**Version:** 1.0

## SUMMARY

1. [ALTO STANDARD](#I.)
2. [RETRO NEEDS](#II.)
3. [DATA SOURCES](#III.)


# I. ALTO STANDARD <a id="I."></a>

ALTO (Analyzed Layout and Text Object) is a standardized XML format to store layout information and OCR recognized text of pages of any kind of printed documents like books, journals and newspapers.

It is designed to be used as an extension schema to METS (Metadata Encoding and Transmission Standard), where METS provides metadata and structural information while ALTO contains content and physical information.
However, ALTO instances can also exist as a standalone document used independently of METS.

Each ALTO file contains a style section where different styles (for paragraphs and fonts) are listed. The layout section contains what’s on the page.
A page is divided into several regions (Print space, left margin, right margin, top margin and bottom margin).
For each region all objects are listed which have been detected inside.

To create a valid ALTO file, a specific structure must be applied.
[Click here to get the structure of an ALTO file.](https://www.loc.gov/standards/alto/techcenter/structure.html)
And specifically for layout, [click here to get the details of the structure of the page area (PageSpace).](https://www.loc.gov/standards/alto/techcenter/layout.html)


# II. RETRO NEEDS <a id="II."></a>

A meeting with the RETRO team at CESR (with Justine Pinsard and Amélie Gauthier) helped to understand their most important input needs.

## INPUTS

RETRO parse lines and their characters from a ALTO files.

As the software is dedicated to translation and encoding, nothing other than the coordinates of each character and the lines to which they belong are important.
Transcription involves applying OCR to old documents and transforming them into a text-readable PDF, retaining the layout.
Encoding simply write the text in a file, without layout.

Concretely, it recursively needs the coordinates of each line, each word and each character.
It deduces the space character from the separate tag words.

Therefore, the minimum for AGORA is to store ALTO files with this global structure:
```
<alto>
    <Description>
        <alto:MeasurementUnit>pixel</alto:MeasurementUnit>
        <sourceImageInformation
            <alto:fileName>[filename .e.g XXXXX.png]</alto:fileName>
            <alto:fileIdentifier fileIdentifierLocation="[path .e.g ../images]"/>
        /sourceImageInformation>
        <Processing/>
    </Description>
    <Styles>
        <ParagraphStyle ID="[idString .e.g BLOCK]"/>
        <ParagraphStyle ID="[idString .e.g ILLU]"/>
        <ParagraphStyle ID="[idString .e.g LINE]"/>
        <ParagraphStyle ID="[idString .e.g CHAR]"/>
        <ParagraphStyle .../>
    </Styles>

    <Layout>
        <Page ID="[uniqueString .e.g 0]" HEIGHT="[integer]" WIDTH="[integer]" PHYSICAL_IMG_NR="0">
            <TopMargin HEIGHT="[integer]" WIDTH="[integer]" HPOS="[integer]" VPOS="[integer]">
                ...
            </TopMargin>
            <LeftMargin ...>
                ...
            </LeftMargin>
            <RightMargin ...>
                ...
            </RightMargin>
            <BottomMargin ...>
                ...
            </BottomMargin>
            <PrintSpace ...>
                <TextBlock ID="[uniqueString .e.g 0.0]" STYLEREFS="[idString]" HEIGHT="[integer]" WIDTH="[integer]" HPOS="[integer]" VPOS="[integer]">
                    <TextLine ID="[uniqueString .e.g 0.0.0]" ...>
                        <String ID="[uniqueString .e.g 0.0.0.0]" CONTENT="*" ...>

                            <!-- Remains to define -->
                            <Glyph ID="[uniqueString .e.g 0.0.0.0.0]" CONTENT="*" ...>

                        ...
                    <TextLine .../>
                    ...
                </TextBlock>
                ...
                <ComposedBlock ID="[uniqueString .e.g 0.1]" ...">
                    <Illustration FILEID="[uniqueString .e.g 0.1.0.jpg]" ID="[uniqueString .e.g 0.1.0]" IDNEXT="[uniqueString .e.g 0.1.1]"...>
                    <TextBlock ID="[uniqueString .e.g 0.1.1]" ...>
                        ...
                    </TextBlock>
                    ...
                </ComposedBlock>
                ...
            </PrintSpace>
        </Page>
    </Layout>
</alto>
```

- TextBlock is a paragraph of text.
- TextLine is a line of text.
- String is a single word.
- SP is a white space.
- HYP is a hyphenation characteristics.
- Glyph (alto>=4) is a single character

I need to know if I should use Glyph or String (alto<4) according to the ALTO version needed in order to store the position of each character in the file.
Otherwise, I will make use String for characters.

Also, if I use Glyph, should I put a CONTENT attribute by default in String and/or Glyph ? Should I put a CONTENT attribute like it was done before ?
This is not a mandatory attribute. Therefore, I do not have to.

It would be interesting to ask other users as the use of the latest version of ALTO could possibly neutralise the use of old softwares that currently use AGORA with alto==2.


## WHAT CAN BE IMPROVED

For RETRO, the AGORA inputs are too much often wrong with these cases:
- fi => the two characters are merged together
- é è => the accent and the character are not merged
- ! ? : => the parts of the symbol are not merged
- , - . => the symbol is not detected (probably considered as noise)

They could also apply RETRO on non-latin alphabets, like Greek or Arabic.


# III. DATA SOURCES <a id="III."></a>

The RETRO team advised me 3 data sources:
- [Les Bibliothèques Virtuelles Humanistes (BVH)](http://www.bvh.univ-tours.fr/accueil.asp): 15th and 16th centuries and encoded in XML/TEI 
- [Gallica](http://www.bvh.univ-tours.fr/accueil.asp): books from the 10th century to the first half of the 20th century, with a strong presence of documents published in the 19th century, and sometimes encoded in XML
- [Internet Archive](https://archive.org/details/books): books from the 11th century to the 21th century, and sometimes encoded in XML

